docs/reindex/README.md, before:

HAFT-

# Background

In a blog post from 2013 [Elastic explained how to perform a mapping migration
without downtime][1]. The process has been much facilitated by the [2016 release
of the Reindex API][2], but the overall strategy reproduced [here][3] and
[there][4] is basically the same:

1. Create an alias for the old index
2. Alter application clients to target the alias
3. Create the new index
4. Reindex data from old index to new index
5. Atomically update the alias to point to new index
6. Remove old index

But [several][5] [others][6] [have][7] [noticed][8] that there are extra steps
to take care of what happens with reads and writes requests that arrive during
the migration process, specially considering that the Reindex operation might
take a while. "Zero Downtime" means you won't be getting
`index_not_found_exception` errors, but for some applications that's far from
enough.


[1]: https://www.elastic.co/blog/changing-mapping-with-zero-downtime
[2]: https://www.elastic.co/blog/reindex-is-coming
[3]: https://medium.com/@aonrobot/elsaticsearch-reindex-zero-downtime-57edc01ba14f
[4]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42671187/rebuild-index-with-zero-downtime
[5]: https://blog.codecentric.de/en/2014/09/elasticsearch-zero-downtime-reindexing-problems-solutions/
[6]: https://engineering.carsguide.com.au/elasticsearch-zero-downtime-reindexing-e3a53000f0ac
[7]: https://summera.github.io/infrastructure/2016/07/04/reindexing-elasticsearch.html
[8]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48594229/elasticsearch-concurrent-updates-to-index-while-reindex-for-the-same-index-in

# Problem Specification

# Solution

# Proof

Commit message:

Add explanation about zero inconsistency

docs/reindex/README.md, after:

# Zero Inconsistency Reindex

## Background

In a blog post from 2013 [Elastic explained how to perform a mapping migration
without downtime][1]. The process has been much facilitated by the [2016 release
of the Reindex API][2], but the overall strategy reproduced [here][3] and
[there][4] is basically the same:

1. Create an alias for the old index
2. Alter application clients to target the alias
3. Create the new index
4. Reindex data from old index to new index
5. Atomically update the alias to point to new index
6. Remove old index

But [several][5] [others][6] [have][7] [noticed][8] that there are extra steps
to take care if you want to control what happens with reads and writes requests
that arrive during the migration process - specially considering that the
Reindex operation might take a while. "Zero Downtime" means you won't be getting
`index_not_found_exception` errors, but for some applications that's far from
enough. In fact, this author believes that "endpoint downtime" is a superfluous
concept for the search end users of an information retrieval; it is a particular
case of retrieving a completely irrelevant response.

The goals of the migration process are simply but ambitiously stated as: *users
should not be able to notice it by analyzing retrieved documents*, who could
otherwise notice inconsistencies between query/responses and inferences about
existing documents. We focus on system behavior but take note that there are
still other relevant concerns, e.g. operational performance of the Elasticsearch
cluster during the migration as reindex tasks can be resource intensive.


[1]: https://www.elastic.co/blog/changing-mapping-with-zero-downtime
[2]: https://www.elastic.co/blog/reindex-is-coming
[3]: https://medium.com/@aonrobot/elsaticsearch-reindex-zero-downtime-57edc01ba14f
[4]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42671187/rebuild-index-with-zero-downtime
[5]: https://blog.codecentric.de/en/2014/09/elasticsearch-zero-downtime-reindexing-problems-solutions/
[6]: https://engineering.carsguide.com.au/elasticsearch-zero-downtime-reindexing-e3a53000f0ac
[7]: https://summera.github.io/infrastructure/2016/07/04/reindexing-elasticsearch.html
[8]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48594229/elasticsearch-concurrent-updates-to-index-while-reindex-for-the-same-index-in

## Problem Specification

## Solution

## Proof
